.\" Copyright 1998 Derek B. Noonburg
.TH pdfimages 1 "01 Feb 2002"
.SH NAME
pdfimages \- Portable Document Format (PDF) image extractor
(version 1.00)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdfimages
[options]
.I PDF-file image-root
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdfimages
saves images from a Portable Document Format (PDF) file as Portable
Pixmap (PPM), Portable Bitmap (PBM), or JPEG files.
.PP
Pdfimages reads the PDF file, scans one or more pages,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes one PPM, PBM, or JPEG file for each image,
.IR image-root - nnn . xxx ,
where
.I nnn
is the image number and
.I xxx
is the image type (.ppm, .pbm, .jpg).
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Pdfimages reads a configuration file at startup.  It first tries to
find the user's private config file, ~/.xpdfrc.  If that doesn't
exist, it looks for a system-wide config file, typically
/usr/local/etc/xpdfrc (but this location can be changed when pdfimages
is built).  See the
.BR xpdfrc (5)
man page for details.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the following options can be set with configuration file
commands.  These are listed in square brackets with the description of
the corresponding command line option.
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies the first page to scan.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies the last page to scan.
.TP
.B \-j
Normally, all images are written as PBM (for monochrome images) or PPM
(for non-monochrome images) files.  With this option, images in DCT
format are saved as JPEG files.  All non-DCT images are saved in
PBM/PPM format as usual.
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will
bypass all security restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify the user password for the PDF file.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any messages or errors.
.RB "[config file: " errQuiet ]
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright and version information.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH BUGS
With the -j option, the PDF image streams are copied directly to the
output files.  DCT images in PDF files may use some non-standard JPEG
features, so the resulting .jpg files may not be too useful.
.SH AUTHOR
The pdfimages software and documentation are copyright 1996-2002 Derek
B. Noonburg (derekn@foolabs.com).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdftops (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdftopbm (1),
.BR xpdfrc (5)
.br
.B http://www.foolabs.com/xpdf/
