.\" Copyright 1996 Derek B. Noonburg
.TH pdftops 1 "01 Feb 2002"
.SH NAME
pdftops \- Portable Document Format (PDF) to PostScript converter
(version 1.00)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdftops
[options]
.RI [ PDF-file
.RI [ PS-file ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pdftops
converts Portable Document Format (PDF) files to PostScript so they
can be printed.
.PP
Pdftops reads the PDF file,
.IR PDF-file ,
and writes a PostScript file,
.IR PS-file .
If
.I PS-file
is not specified, pdftops converts
.I file.pdf
to
.I file.ps
(or
.I file.eps
with the -eps option).  If 
.I PS-file
is \'-', the PostScript is sent to stdout.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Pdftops reads a configuration file at startup.  It first tries to find
the user's private config file, ~/.xpdfrc.  If that doesn't exist, it
looks for a system-wide config file, typically /usr/local/etc/xpdfrc
(but this location can be changed when pdftops is built).  See the
.BR xpdfrc (5)
man page for details.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the following options can be set with configuration file
commands.  These are listed in square brackets with the description of
the corresponding command line option.
.TP
.BI \-f " number"
Specifies the first page to print.
.TP
.BI \-l " number"
Specifies the last page to print.
.TP
.B \-level1
Generate Level 1 PostScript.  The resulting PostScript files will be
significantly larger (if they contain images), but will print on Level
1 printers.  This also converts all images to black and white.  The
default behavior is to generate Level 2 PostScript.  In particular,
Level 2 supports color images and image compression.  No more than one
of the PostScript level options (-level1, -level1sep, -level2sep) may
be given.
.RB "[config file: " psLevel ]
.TP
.B \-level1sep
Generate Level 1 separable PostScript.  All colors are converted to
CMYK.  Images are written with separate stream data for the four
components.
.RB "[config file: " psLevel ]
.TP
.B \-level2sep
Generate Level 2 separable PostScript.  All colors are converted to
CMYK.  The PostScript separation convention operators are used to
handle custom (spot) colors.
.RB "[config file: " psLevel ]
.TP
.B \-eps
Generate an Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) file.  An EPS file contains
a single image, so if you use this option with a multi-page PDF file,
you must use -f and -l to specify a single page.  No more than one of
the mode options (-eps, -form) may be given.
.TP
.B \-form
Generate a PostScript form which can be imported by software that
understands forms.  A form contains a single page, so if you use this
option with a multi-page PDF file, you must use -f and -l to specify a
single page.  The -level1 option cannot be used with -form.
.TP
.B \-opi
Generate OPI comments for all images and forms which have OPI
information.  (This option is only available if pdftops was compiled
with OPI support.)
.RB "[config file: " psOPI ]
.TP
.B \-noembt1
By default, any Type 1 fonts which are embedded in the PDF file are
copied into the PostScript file.  This option causes pdftops to
substitute base fonts instead.  Embedded fonts make PostScript files
larger, but may be necessary for readable output.
.RB "[config file: " psEmbedType1Fonts ]
.TP
.B \-noembtt
By default, any TrueType fonts which are embedded in the PDF file are
copied into the PostScript file.  This option causes pdftops to
substitute base fonts instead.  Embedded fonts make PostScript files
larger, but may be necessary for readable output.  Also, some
PostScript interpreters do not have TrueType rasterizers.
.RB "[config file: " psEmbedTrueTypeFonts ]
.TP
.BI \-paper " size"
Set the paper size to one of "letter", "legal", "A4", or "A3".
.RB "[config file: " psPaperSize ]
.TP
.BI \-paperw " size"
Set the paper width, in points.
.RB "[config file: " psPaperSize ]
.TP
.BI \-paperh " size"
Set the paper height, in points.
.RB "[config file: " psPaperSize ]
.TP
.B \-duplex
Set the Duplex pagedevice entry in the PostScript file.  This tells
duplex-capable printers to enable duplexing.
.RB "[config file: " psDuplex ]
.TP
.BI \-opw " password"
Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will
bypass all security restrictions.
.TP
.BI \-upw " password"
Specify the user password for the PDF file.
.TP
.B \-q
Don't print any messages or errors.
.RB "[config file: " errQuiet ]
.TP
.BI \-cfg " config-file"
Read
.I config-file
in place of ~/.xpdfrc or the system-wide config file.
.TP
.B \-v
Print copyright and version information.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.RB ( \-help
and
.B \-\-help
are equivalent.)
.SH BUGS
No support for Type 3 fonts.
.SH AUTHOR
The pdftops software and documentation are copyright 1996-2002 Derek
B. Noonburg (derekn@foolabs.com).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xpdf (1),
.BR pdftotext (1),
.BR pdfinfo (1),
.BR pdffonts (1),
.BR pdftopbm (1),
.BR pdfimages (1),
.BR xpdfrc (5)
.br
.B http://www.foolabs.com/xpdf/
